# Blog Post 3
My strategy for conducting an EDA is to first look at the data I am working with, whether it be from a specific data set or from an API. I want to skim through and get a general feel for what the data set represents first so I can get an idea of how I want to analyze it. Once I've decided which parts of the data I am interested in I begin to brainstorm and come up with hypotheses I have about the data. Once I have a hypothesis, or severeal hyptheses, I begin to think through how I can model the data to help me confirm or deny my predictions. This process involves creating functions to call on certain variables that I want to address and compare. Once I have usueable functions and can seperate the parts of the data I want to use, I begin creating plots. Different plot types help show different information and based on what my hypothesis was, I can choose which type of plot I want to analyze the data. If I want to see average values of some type  for different types of a variable I may use a box plot. If I want to see if there is a correlation between variables I may create a scatterplot with a trend line. Once I have made my plots, I gather infromation from the representation so I can make conclusions about the data I am analyzing and I describe the trends I am seeing. My overall goal for an EDA is to summarize and use the data I have to come up with conclusions to the hypotheses I am curious about and to show what the numbers actually represent so that the findings can be conveyed to the public or people wthout statistical knowledge. I am trying to look for trends in the data that can be observed and that mean something that is useful to know or can be used in other situations. 
